{% docs int_snowplow_page_views %}

Page views are a subset of all Snowplow events: page view events are fired by the Snowplow javascript tracker and form the base of this model. The goal of this model is to enrich page view events to include other useful information such as scroll height, time on page, and page view index. Many of these enrichments are performed within upstream models and joined here.

Page views are the primary input into sessions. If there is ever any additional information from the page view stream that an analysts wants to get that is not present in the the `int_snowplow_sessions` model, querying this table directly is a good idea. Doing so should be done with care, however, as this table is frequently quite large. Typically analysis done on this table should first be aggregated at the session level rather than being queried on the fly for performance reasons.

View the Snowplow canonical docs on this model [here](https://github.com/snowplow/web-data-model#31-page-views-table).

{% enddocs %}

{% docs int_snowplow_sessions %}

Sessions are discrete periods of activity by a user on a website. In Snowplow, a session is typically defined as a series of activities followed by a 30-minute window without any activity. If the same cookie visits the website after 30 minutes of inactivity, the javascript tracker will start a new session.

The Snowplow sessionization models _do not_ need to handle the determination of when to start a new session; that is handled in the Snowplow javascript tracker and saved in the `session_id` dimension of the event. The sessionization models build a `int_snowplow_sessions` model that aggregates a large number data points about the `session_id` that has been generated by the javascript tracker. Most of this information is calculated on top of page views from `snowplow_page_views`.

Note that the `inferred_user_id` field should be used as the primary user identifier in this model, as it has had "identity stitching" performed on it and can therefore reliably trace a user's history through time and across browsers/devices.

Please view the [Snowplow Canonical Web Data Model](https://github.com/snowplow/web-data-model#32-sessions-table) for more information on this model.

{% enddocs %}